feature: provide better rspamd suppport (#3016)
docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver: docs/content/config/security/rspamd.md

---
title: 'Security | Rspamd'
---

!!! warning "Implementation of Rspamd into DMS is WIP!"

## About

Rspamd is a "fast, free and open-source spam filtering system". It offers high performance as it is written in C. Visit [their homepage][homepage] for more details.

## Integration & Configuration

### Providing & Overriding Settings

DMS brings sane default settings for Rspamd. They are located at `/etc/rspamd/local.d/` inside the container (or `target/rspamd/local.d/` in the repository). If you want to change these settings and / or provide your own settings, you can

1. place files at `/etc/rspamd/override.d/` which will override Rspamd settings and DMS settings
2. (re-)place files at `/etc/rspamd/local.d/` to override DMS settings and merge them with Rspamd settings

You can find a list of all Rspamd modules [on their website][modules].

### DMS' Defaults

You can choose to enable ClamAV, and Rspamd will then use it to check for viruses. Just set the environment variable `ENABLE_CLAMAV=1`.

> DMS disables certain modules (clickhouse, dkim_signing, elastic, greylist, rbl, reputation, spamassassin, url_redirector, metric_exporter) by default. We believe these do are not required in a standard-setup and needlessly use resources. You can re-activate them by replacing `/etc/rspamd/local.d/<MODULE>.conf` or overriding DMS' default with `/etc/rspamd/override.d/<MODULE>.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DMS disables certain modules (clickhouse, dkim_signing, elastic, greylist, rbl, reputation, spamassassin, url_redirector, metric_exporter) by default. We believe these are not required in a standard setup, and needlessly use resources. You can re-activate them by replacing `/etc/rspamd/local.d/<MODULE>.conf` or overriding DMS' default with `/etc/rspamd/override.d/<MODULE>.conf`.
```

---
title: 'Security | Rspamd'
---

!!! warning "Implementation of Rspamd into DMS is WIP!"

## About

Rspamd is a "fast, free and open-source spam filtering system". It offers high performance as it is written in C. Visit [their homepage][homepage] for more details.

## Integration & Configuration

> We provide a very simple but easy to maintain setup of RSpamd. The proxy worker works in [self-scan mode][proxy-self-scan-mode]. This simplifies the setup as we do not require a normal worker. You can easily change this though by [overriding our configuration](#providing-overriding-settings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide a very simple but easy to maintain setup of RSpamd. The proxy worker operates in [self-scan mode][proxy-self-scan-mode]. This simplifies the setup as we do not require a normal worker. You can easily change this though by [overriding the configuration by DMS](#providing-overriding-settings).
```
